.TH long2bin(3) 2011-03-19 "Linux Manpage" "OOPS Library's Manual"
.\" Process with
.\" nroff -man long2bin.3
.\" 2011-03-19 JoungKyun Kim <htt://oops.org>
.\" $Id: long2bin.3,v 1.1 2011-03-18 16:52:20 oops Exp $
.SH NAME
long2bin \- Convert 64bit integer to binary string
.br
dec2bin \- Convert decimal string to binary

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <olibc/libstring.h>
.sp
.BI "unsigned int long2bin (long long src, char ** dst);"
.sp
.BI "unsigned int dec2bin (const char * src, char ** dst);"

.SH Link library
.B \-loc
or
.B \-lolibc
.br

.B libolibc.so
and
.B libolibc.a
include
.B "LGPL2 symbols,"
so links this library, your object or binary is follows LGPL2.
If you don't need idn library and, don't want LGPL 2 effects,
use
.B liboc.so
or
.B liboc.a
that follows BSD license.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BI long2bin()
api convert 64bit integer to binary string.

The
.BI long2bin()
api caculate 64bit integer with high and low bit for 32bit and 64bit
compatibility. So, for cleary 32bit range integer, use the
.BI dec2bin()
api.

.TP
.B src
.br
The input 64bit ingeter

.TP
.B dst
.br
The converted binary string

.PP
The
.BI dec2bin()
api convert decimal string to binary string.

.TP
.B dec
.br
The input deciaml string

.TP
.B dst
.br
The converted binary string

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Length of binary string. When occurs internal error, 2th argument
.B dst
has null value. If the
.B dst
argument has not null, the caller should deallocate this buffer using
.BI free().

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <olibc/libstring.h>

int main (void) {
    long long src = 1000;
    char    * dec = "1000";
    char    * dst;
    unsigned int len;

    len = long2bin (src, &dst);
    if ( dst != null ) {
        printf ("%s\\n", dst);
        free (dst);
    }

    len = dec2bin (dec, &dst);
    if ( dst != null ) {
        printf ("%s\\n", dst);
        free (dst);
    }
}

.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
bin2long(3), bin2dec(3)

.SH AUTHOR
JoungKyun.Kim <http://oops.org>

.SH BUGS
Please report bug on QnA bulletin board on http://oops.org/
