.TH numberFormat(3) 2011-03-18 "Linux Manpage" "OOPS Library's Manual"
.\" Process with
.\" nroff -man numberFormat.3
.\" 2011-03-18 JoungKyun Kim <htt://oops.org>
.\" $Id$
.SH NAME
numberFormat \- Format a number with grouped thousands

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <olibc/libstring.h>
.sp
.BI "char * numberFormat (double d, int dec, char dec_point, char thousand_sep, bool print);"

.SH "Link library"
.B \-loc
or
.B \-lolibc
.br

.B libolibc.so
and
.B libolibc.a
include
.B "LGPL2 symbols,"
so links this library, your object or binary is follows LGPL2.
If you don't need idn library and, don't want LGPL 2 effects,
use
.B liboc.so
or
.B liboc.a
that follows BSD license.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Format a number with grouped thousands.

.TP
.B d
.br
The number being formatted.

.TP
.B dec
.br
Sets the number of decimal points.

.TP
.B dec_point
.br
Sets the separator for the decimal point.

.TP
.B thousand_sep
.br  
Sets the thousands separator.

.TP
.B print
.br
if set true, returns null.

.SH 반환값
The pointer of formatted string. When occurs internal error,
.BI numberFormat()
returns null. If the return string array pointer is not null,
the caller should deallocate this buffer using
.BI free()

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <olibc/libstring.h>

int main (void) {
    double no = 123456789;
    char *data;

    data = malloc(128);

    strcpy (data, numberFormat(no,1,0));

    printf ("%s\\n", data);
    free (data);

    return 0;
}
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
human_size(3)

.SH AUTHOR
JoungKyun.Kim <http://oops.org>

.SH BUGS
Please report bug on QnA bulletin board on http://oops.org/
