.TH preg_match(3) 2011-03-17 "Linux Manpage" "OOPS Library's Manual"
.\" Process with
.\" nroff -man preg_match.3
.\" 2011-03-17 JoungKyun Kim <htt://oops.org>
.\" $Id: preg_match.3,v 1.7 2011-03-16 15:50:38 oops Exp $
.SH NAME
preg_match \- Perform a regular expression match.
.br
preg_match_r \- Perform a regular expression match and save matched string.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <olibc/libpcre.h>
.sp
.BI "int preg_match (const char * regex, const char * subject);"
.br
.BI "int preg_match_r (const char * regex, const char * subject, const char *** matched);"

.SH "Link library"
.B \-loc
or
.B \-lolibc
.br

.B libolibc.so
and
.B libolibc.a
include
.B "LGPL2 symbols,"
so links this library, your object or binary is follows LGPL2.
If you don't need idn library and, don't want LGPL 2 effects,
use
.B liboc.so
or
.B liboc.a
that follows BSD license.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Searches subject for a match to the regular expression given in regex.

.BI preg_match_r()
api save the results of search on 3th argument.
.B matches[0]
will contain the text that matched the full pattern,
.B matches[1]
will have the text that matched the first captured parenthesized
subpattern, and so on.

When occurs internal error, 3th argument matches of
.BI preg_match_r()
has null value. If the matches argument has not null, the caller should
deallocate this buffer using
.BI free().

.TP
.B regex
.br
The pattern to search for, as a string.

.TP
.B subject
.br
The input string.

.TP
.B matches of preg_match_r()
.br
array of matched strings

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.BI preg_match:
.TP
true
.br
Success
.TP
false
.br
Failure

.TP
.BI preg_match_r:

.TP
.BI > 0
.br
Success: value is the number of elements filled in
.TP
0
.br
Internal failed
.TP
-1
.br
Failed to match

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <olibc/libpcre.h>

int main (void) {
    char * x = "abcd1234\\\\n6943Aaa";
    const char ** matches;
    printf ("%d\\n", preg_match ("/[0-9][a-z]/i", x));

    if ( preg_match_r ("/([3])([A])([a])/", x, &matches) ) {
        int i;
        for ( i=0; i<4; i++ )
            printf ("%s\\n", matches[i]);
    }

    return 0;
}

.fi

.SH AUTHOR
JoungKyun.Kim <http://oops.org>

.SH BUGS
Please report bug on QnA bulletin board on http://oops.org/
