.TH realpath_r(3) 2011-03-16 "Linux Manpage" "OOPS Library's Manual"
.\" Process with
.\" nroff -man realpath_r.3
.\" 2011-03-16 JoungKyun Kim <htt://oops.org>
.\" $Id: realpath_r.3,v 1.3 2011-03-16 12:10:59 oops Exp $
.SH NAME
realpath_r \- Returns canonicalized absolute pathname

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <olibc/libfile.h>
.sp
.BI "char * realpath_r (const char * path);"

.SH "Link library"
.B \-loc
or
.B \-lolibc
.br

.B libolibc.so
and
.B libolibc.a
include
.B "LGPL2 symbols,"
so links this library, your object or binary is follows LGPL2.
If you don't need idn library and, don't want LGPL 2 effects,
use
.B liboc.so
or
.B liboc.a
that follows BSD license.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BI realpath_r()
expands all symbolic links and resolves references to \'/./\',
\'/../\' and extra \'/\' characters in the null terminated string
named by path and returns the canonicalized absolute pathname
in the buffer of size PATH_MAX. The resulting path will have
no symbolic link, \'/./\' or \'/../\' components.

.TP
.B path
.br
The path being checked.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Returns the canonicalized absolute pathname or null on failure.

When occurs internal error,
.BI realpath_r()
returns null. If the return string array pointer is not null, the
caller should deallocate this buffer using
.BI free().

If it returns NULL pointer, the global variable errno set follows:

.TP
.B ENOENT
The named file does not exist.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
The user memory cannot be mapped
.TP
.B ERANGE
Not enough space available for storing the path
.TP
.B EFAULT
Memory access violation occurs while copying
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
A component of a pathname exceeded NAME_MAX characters, or an
entire pathname exceeded PATH_MAX characters.

.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
#include <olibc/libfile.h>

int main (void) {
    char *path = realpath_r ("../../some.file");
    if ( path != NULL ) {
        printf ("Absolute path is %s\\n", path);
        free (path);
    } else {
        fprintf ("ERROR: %s\\n", strerror (errno));
    }

    return 0;
}
.fi

.SH AUTHOR
JoungKyun.Kim <http://oops.org>

.SH BUGS
Please report bug on QnA bulletin board on http://oops.org/

